why don't we talk about Western Digital
and their 20 terabyte hard drives here
is and we can we can we can talk about
sort of the the technical details a
little bit later so this is posted by
Andre Arjun l-arginine our genie Andre
our Janu on the forums and we'll go
through this stuff later is anybody
actually asking for a 20 terabyte hard
drive you are aren't you
Am I I don't know you just bought a
bunch of hard drives recently oh wait no
not hard drives SSDs are these hard
drives or SSDs are hard drives
oh is this more like no that can't be
right do do data centers use hard drives
or SSDs they use both okay so is this
more for data centers and so again
here's the thing um okay so you know
what fine let's run through let's run
let's let's run through this so they're
sampling enterprise OEMs with 20
terabyte ultra star DC HD 650 hard
drives utilizing shingled magnetic
recording and helium-filled enclosure so
the helium is to improve the efficiency
of the drive as the platter spins
because there's more air resistance
although it's helium resistance now it's
not air and shingled magnetic recording
takes the tracks that are laid out in
circles on the drive platter and
actually overlaps them a little bit
we've done some really good content on
this in the past basically what it means
is that there's no penalty while you're
reading it means you can squeeze them
closer together there's no penalty while
you're reading it but if you need to
write it well here give me another
single perfect thank you if I need to
change this middle shingle now I need to
also delete this one so that I can get
at it change it and then put this back
so there is a write performance penalty
with shingled magnetic drive so Seagate
has used jingled magnetic recording in
their archive series in the past and
I've actually used them I have found
that the right penalty particularly if
it is a write once read many application
doesn't really matter that much but your
mileage may vary if you're gonna try and
write a ton of
and I'm dated to it like sequential is
okay if you're just archiving like a
bunch of video footage which is the only
thing I was using them for and the time
we hadn't deployed hey no big deal but
if you're gonna hit them with a bunch of
random i/o you're really gonna suffer
because every single one of those bits
that you need to flip is gonna have a
whole bunch of them that you need to
then up and move somewhere else flip it
and then rewrite it's it's a total mess
and really it's actually kind of akin to
the way that SSDs write which is part of
why writing performance on SSDs is so
much worse than shingled mega drives yes
guys I understand that they are
functionally very different on a
hardware level
I just mean conceptually they are
similar in that you might need to change
a very small thing but you actually have
to erase and move then change it and
then put other stuff back once you're
done the new drives utilize nine
platters if really earth what a
harddrive platter is it's like a little
metal disk little metal disk so
traditional hard drives used a single
platter and you could have recording
space on both sides yeah now imagine
this having nine you've got nine of
those packed until a no wonder they need
to fill it with helium in order to keep
the air resistance down low enough to
make this thing even reasonably
efficient so if one platter goes is your
whole hard drive go no if one platter
goes you can in some cases we actually
did a great video about this where we
tore drive savers so someone like drive
savers might be able to go in replace
the the reed head so that's like this
arm yeah that stick so overall that all
the different platters they might be
able to replace it and then put on a new
one because usually it would be that
that fails not like the platter itself
that fails cuz it's just it's just
magnetic ones and zeros on a metal disk
there's not as much to fail unless the
the reed head were to fail spectacularly
and crash it's called a head crash if
that were to hit it well it might
scratch a bunch of the data but you
might still be able to get a bunch of it
back assuming that you can get a new
reed head in so anyway where was I going
with this right you've got nine of these
monsters you've got this immensely
complicated apparatus that's required to
read off of them
what's up so it has a two and a half
million hour MTTF mean time between
failures so okay that's really kind of
where I was eventually gonna make my way
to with this so they're advertising them
for their sequential right use case
because yep single thing they're writing
it's not fast enough for random writes
so here's my problem the only way that
we can make hard drives faster is either
by shrinking the size of the bits on the
platters or by spinning them faster
really that's that's it because if you
think about it like the way that a
record player works yeah right
the only way to make the song go faster
is to put the notes closer together or
to spin the record faster yeah that's
all that you can really do now Seagate
actually is working on a dual actuator
technology that would allow two separate
read and write operations to take place
simultaneously that's kind of cool then
not the nine that are on these 20
terabyte drives they would all move
together so if you need something on
like the top platter the bottom one
can't go get something from somewhere
else well I'm getting to that
okay so on paper this is great 20
terabyte drives would mean that in
something like a sixty drive story nadir
let's just do a quick calculate I don't
I don't what why is PowerShell opening
wow I hate you so much okay so 60 times
20 is something like a 60 Drive store
Nader in a single for you rack with just
60 drives you could put 1.2 petabytes of
data even if you're giving up let's say
one in every six Drive as you might to
something like you know raid z2 or you
know some some kind of parity data
protection you could put a petabyte of
data in a single for you rack that's
incredible the problem is that the only
way to speed up the performance of these
drives is complicated technology like
dual actuators remember these tiny
three-and-a-half-inch enclosures
spinning it faster which adds more
it adds more drag as the platters spin
it adds more complexity because all of a
sudden everything has to be done to
within failure right that's exactly
where we're going with this so hard
drives their capacities keep getting
bigger but their performance is stuck
because we can't spin them faster and we
can't really put the bits meaningfully
any closer together all we can do is add
more platters at this point and so what
that means is that a 20 terabyte drive
at what is pretty typical
you know let's say like a yeah these are
shingled so let's say it can right at
200 megabytes a second alright so let's
do let's do some quick napkin math we
can do what just happened hold on 200
megabytes a second times uh hold on a
second 60 seconds
okay so we've managed well what can I do
for you wants meat okay yeah lots of
shirts that LTTE store comm do we even
have stock of anything right now Oh
black and gold water bottles are back in
stock right Oh
stealth water bottles okay all right
yeah we had a great holiday season thank
you guys so much by the way on LTT store
okay so in a minute I can write 12,000
megabytes
okay so let's do times 60 again in an
hour I can write 720 thousand megabytes
so times 24 so let's say in a day
alright in a day
I can finally write almost the entire
surface of this drive so do you remember
I think we actually talked about this
back when we were in university although
I think it was in the context of USB
thumb drives okay okay this is a long
time ago to try to remember you're gonna
remember but okay the point is guys when
we
like probably I'd say around grade 10
USB thumb drives were like the biz they
were so cool remember that I don't know
about grade 10 maybe and I know it's a
university for me okay well it was it
was I remember when I got my first what
was it it was I think it was 16
megabytes I got my first USB thumb drive
so you can remember how many megabytes
are in your very first thumb drive I
can't remember my birthday I remember
your birthday now I forgot her birthday
the first year we were dating yep
I have never I have never heard the end
of it as you guys could see okay so
anyway back to USB thumb drives my first
USB thumb drive was 16 megabytes and I
was jazzed because I didn't have to use
floppy disks to carry my assignments to
and from school anymore like wow and I
could even put files that weren't just
text like if I wanted to share a cool
song that I definitely got totally
legally on Napster with a friend I could
bring that to school and give it to them
and they could transfer it to their
thumb drive and it was like oh I can
take this to my computer at home and put
it on my my mini disc player whatever
the case may be but around the time that
I met you we started to run into this
problem so USB 3 hadn't come along yet
to fix it but USB 2 fun drives
we're getting to the point where the
capacity was so large that there were
still some kind of reliability issues
with them especially when you were using
them on older systems but you couldn't
really count on them to not have some
kind of a problem if you needed to get
all the data off of it in an emergency
or something like that like it wasn't
really safe to store that much data on
this tiny thing and I remember we had
this conversation do you remember this
at all no yeah I knew you weren't
listening it's fine I listen to lots of
other things it's not this part yeah
yeah that's fine so the point is the
point that I'm getting to and we solve
that problem with faster interfaces so
now you can use USB 3 or Thunderbolt 3
to read and write off of these multi
terabyte portable drives and we kind of
fixed it by just going really really way
faster
but hard drives in that time hard drives
have maybe doubled in speed except that
when I met you 500 gig hard drive was
pretty sweet and now we're talking
drives that are literally what 40 times
bad size is that right am i doing the
math right can you open with the math
here 20 terabytes you got 500 yeah yeah
yeah 40 times the size so here here's my
here's my rough what is this why is this
full screen here's my rough napkin ah
here guys ah let's just make sure that
nothing you mean there's my rough
document so in 24 hours I can write not
quite that entire Drive so at what point
our hard drives just not practical for
this kind of storage even if they are
cheap well we might be there unless
they're really cheap unless you can
literally buy two or three of them for
the price that you could store that data
on something else and then you can just
have it like duplicated and in the event
that something fails while you're trying
to recover it you just grab it from the
other one copied over to I'm like it
starts to become this very complicated
data management scheme so hard drive
manufacturers are still pretty bullish
on their future they think the hard
drive is going to be around for a good
long while but I think that for general
consumers who can't afford these
complicated data management schemes we
might be getting close to the end
because I don't know about you guys but
I don't necessarily want even in my home
Nass I don't necessarily want a drive
that remember if I'm copying this over
gigabit is now gonna take more than two
days I don't necessarily want to drive
that in the event that I'm dealing with
some kind of data emergency is going to
take two days for me to know if it's
gonna be okay and the like especially
crazy thing about this is if you talk to
some datacenter clients some enterprise
clients
they're not even asking for this
Backblaze famously uses I think it's
shoot don't quote me on this it's either
four or six terabyte drives Backblaze
drives which ones do they use and the
reason is that they've found that from a
from a cost per terabyte total cost of
ownership perspective the newer models
actually have not had a great advantage
for them and they have preferred the
better reliability of these less complex
drives even if it means that they
ultimately have to deploy more servers
over more cabinets in a larger area in
the data set in the data center let me
just have a look so drive counts so they
are using up to 14 terabyte drives now
but I can't remember which one was the
bulk of their storage it looks like
they're using 12 terabytes now so maybe
I maybe I'm mistaken on that one they
did have higher failure rates with those
twelve terabyte drives than they did on
here guys I can pull up their latest
reliability report they actually publish
this back in it looks like March
remember to though guys that C Drive
days oh wow actually those Toshiba ones
are looking pretty good single failure
so what are drive days the number of
times it was used or like number of days
it was used I think that's the total
date like it's how long it's been used
times the number of drives would be mine
would be my understanding here so yeah
it might be that that was might be that
was outdated information so either way
it's gonna come down to this complex
relationship between how much the drive
costs versus how much it costs for the
thing that it needs to go in versus how
often it fails and how complex and
disastrous it is when it fails some
people are like what about SSH deep so
SSH D is basically a small SSD that's
kind of like soldered on to a hard drive
and I think you may be sort of
misunderstanding the purpose of sshd if
you think that it's applicable here
so any hard drive whether it's got a
small SSD cache on it or not is
ultimately limited by how fast it spins
and how close the bits are and sshd
takes frequently accessed data and
caches it on to an SSD so that in the
event that there's like a game that you
always play instead of grabbing it from
the magnetic platters it can grab that
off the SSD and you feel like it's super
responsive now usually these these SSDs
are so small that something like a game
wouldn't end up being cached it's more
like files that windows frequently
accesses stuff like that or maybe you
know components of DirectX or your
graphics driver that it would access as
you're loading up the game so it can
accelerate almost anything but it
doesn't help if the data doesn't fit in
the cache so when we're talking about
writing to the entire surface of a drive
it would do meaningfully nothing and
when you're talking about reading from
the entire surface of the drive it's
negligible again so it wouldn't really
help with that who writes to an entire
20 terabyte hard drive over one or two
days though um well okay so here's an
example we're rolling a new petabyte
project so I understand when you're
during deployments okay I understand
during deployment but that only happens
theoretically once or twice like for
day-to-day use isn't this okay this is a
great way to like if you don't have a
lot of space in your house and you are
slow mo guys or whatever and you need
lots of space so another scenario and
this is the dangerous scenario and it
might not matter today but it might
matter five years from now here's the
scenario you've got eight of these
things spinning in a little enclosure
like this sitting on your desk one of
them dies all right so that's a total of
eight times twenty is a hundred and
sixty terabytes of data right that right
hundred and eighty terabytes help me
know 160 160 terabytes of data all of it
is now at risk because what does of 20
terabytes of data that now needs to be
restored to another drive now during
that restore operation I pull
that failed drive as soon as I possibly
can I put in a new one
now I need to wait two days every one of
those drives has to be read entirely and
one of them has to be written to
entirely a process that could take over
a day long sir we're going and I can't
sleep you can't can you tell I've gone
through this before you've seen me go
through this before
okay maybe I don't know maybe it's just
the way I use hard drives or used to use
hard drives like I would write to my C
Drive and everything would be a my C
Drive yes if I lose a drive might like
my D Drive or II drive or whatever it's
fine but that was back when a hard drive
might be 80 gigs so what have you got on
there you got to blu-ray so so that's
fine 20 terabytes you can have your
whole life on 20 terabytes okay and and
there's that okay there's like a
psychological component to this - when
people see 20 terabytes just fill it
well think about it cuz we got to
remember that this is from not
necessarily a techie person's
perspective as well when you see a 20
terabyte storage drive in your computer
you might go oh gee you know I can store
everything on this and people don't
practice safe backup that's true
I don't either so well no I I take care
of it
I make sure actually our stuff could be
safer right now it could be safer I'm
just glad it's faster it was driving me
crazy I would sit there and try to open
a file and would take like 10 seconds a
load we've been through this that was a
power saving measure don't I had the
disking about how like I had the disks
parked when they were not being used
which by the way means they're not
sitting there spinning idly which I just
made it so that I never used our server
at home yes I saved everything I know
okay so I told very safe I told the
drives not yeah that's not safe at all
well because I don't have your desktop
backed up at all because why would I
it's just windows it's utterly
meaningless
doesn't do anything well it's faster now
so that's good yes okay so I changed it
so the drives don't go to sleep you're
welcome my princess I actually
considered just moving the store Nadeau
to home that all SSD server that's
probably worth like 30 grand again but
Dave got mad at me he was like you what
Nate and so I brought it back